---
layout: post
title: NPM@5 arrived. But is it as fast as Yarn?
image: /assets/media/2017/npm-5.jpg
image_credits: npm, inc.
---

Earlier this month I posted about [how yarn is much faster][should-yarn] than npm, but today NPM itself [posted on Medium][npm@5] about `npm@5` and how fast it has become. I fell like I need to add it to my former comparison, so here it goes.

## New Lockfile

Shrinkwrap is (finally) deprecated. Now NPM creates/uses a `package-lock.json` (much better name :D) that is always created/updated much like the way Yarn does.

That means that all installations, for all devs on a team, will look the same.

## Speed improvements

Says all package metadata and cache were been reworked to make npm from 20% to 100% faster. Cache is also self-healing too, to prevent corruption.

So let's update our later comparison with npm@5 against Yarn.

&nbsp;                                          | npm install | yarn install
--                                              | --:         | --:
**clean install (no cache)**                    | 10.80s      | 6.93s
**cached**                                      | 7.82s       | 4.89s
**cached and _lockfile_ present**               | 5.43s       | 2.10s
**cached and node_modules present**             | 2.22s       | 4.18s
**cached, _lockfile_ and node_modules present** | 2.07s       | 0.67s

Yarn is still faster. But NPM@5 is installing dependencies on half the time or even less its prior version.

I'm not sure if it's stable enough yet &ndash; considering the problems I had with npm shrinkwrap before &ndash; to justify a fallback to NPM. But it will certainly improve even more over time and maybe make Yarn obsolete.

I hope so.

[should-yarn]: https://blog.diovani.com/technology/2017/05/18/should-i-migrate-to-yarn.html "Should I Migrate to Yarn?"
[npm@5]: https://medium.com/npm-inc/npm-5-is-now-npm-latest-d674e9e3b0ec "npm@5 is now `npm@latest`"
